Use replay before deploying a new version of a Workflow (#2032)
temporalio/documentation: kb/deploy-new-version-of-workflow.md

---
slug: deploy-new-version-of-workflow
title: Use Replay before deploy a new version of a Workflow
tags:
  - troubleshooting
  - how-to
date: 2023-05-11T00:00:00Z
---

> When making code changes to a Workflow, it is important to avoid introducing non-deterministic behavior; otherwise, you may encounter `NonDeterministicWorkflowError` exceptions in your Workflow History.

Reviewer: Not sure this error is what it's called in every SDK

One way to prevent this exception from occurring is to use the [Workflow Replayer](/workflows#replays) to replay existing Workflow Histories against your new code before deploying it to production.

If the Replay is successful, you can be confident that your new Workflow version is compatible with your existing Workflow History.

## How to use the Workflow Replayer

To use the Workflow Replayer, you need to provide the following:

- The Workflow Replayer to register the Workflow that is going to be replayed

> - A Workflow History to execute a single Workflow Task from the JSON History file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Workflow History to execute (can be from the JSON History file or loaded directly from the client)
```

> - (optional) Replay Workflow from a specific point in the History

Reviewer: Most SDKs don't support this, we should not include it in the KB

> You can load the Event History from a JSON file on disk, obtained through one of the following methods:

Reviewer: Don't have to load from JSON file on disk, can just use client

### Programmatically

> The Workflow Replayer is available in each SDK.

Reviewer: A workflow replayer being available in each SDK seems unrelated to this section which is about loading event history programmatically

Consult the [SDK specific documentation](/application-development/testing#replay) for more information.

### The Temporal CLI

Use the Temporal CLI to download the Workflow History file from the CLI:

```command
temporal workflow show --workflow-id <workflow_id> --output json > <output_file>
```

### The Temporal Web UI

Navigate through the Temporal Web UI to download the Workflow History file:

1. Navigate to the Workflow Execution you want to download the History from.
2. In the **Recent Events** section, select **Download**.

Once you have the Workflow JSON History file, you can use the Workflow Replayer to replay the Workflow History.

> ### Replay existing Workflow Histories in CI

Reviewer: Are these `###` level headings about obtaining event history? Should this be at a different heading level or under a different section?

Use your existing CI pipeline to replay Workflow Histories against your new Workflow versions to ensure that they are compatible with every change pushed to your version control management.

> You can replay existing Workflow Histories or partial Workflow Histories in your CI pipeline and validate that they do not break determinism and prevent failures from occurring in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can replay existing Workflow Histories in your CI pipeline and validate that they do not break determinism and prevent failures from occurring in production.
```

Should not discuss partial histories, approach not implemented in every SDK

For more information on testing Workflows, see [Test frameworks](/application-development/testing#test-frameworks)

## What happens if I don't use the Workflow Replayer?

> If you don't use the Workflow Replayer, you may see `NonDeterministicWorkflowError` exceptions in your Workflow History. This means that your new code is not compatible with existing Workflow Histories.

Reviewer: You may see this even if you do use the replayer and it succeeds. The nature of non-determinism is you don't know _when_ it will decide to be non-deterministic. We should not act as if using a replayer is a panacea for determinism prevention, it is but one tool that _may_ help, but may not.

> To fix this, you might update your Workflow code to be backwards compatible with the existing Workflow Histories, then reset the Workflow, which can be painful for many stuck executions.

Reviewer: Not sure a sentence about how to recover from non-deterministic errors is best here. Or if it is, make it clear that's what is being discussed (at least I found it tough at first to understand you were talking about fixing stuck workflows errors with "this").

> To fix this, you might update your Workflow code to be backwards compatible with the existing Workflow Histories, then reset the Workflow, which can be painful for many stuck executions.

Reviewer: You may not need to reset your workflow.

---
slug: deploy-new-version-of-workflow
title: Use Replay before deploy a new version of a Workflow
tags:
  - troubleshooting
  - how-to
date: 2023-05-11T00:00:00Z
---

When making code changes to a Workflow, it is important to avoid introducing non-deterministic behavior; otherwise, you may encounter non-determinism errors in your Workflow History.

One way to prevent this error from occurring is to use the [Workflow Replayer](/workflows#replays) to replay existing Workflow Histories against your new code before deploying it to production.

:::important

While the Workflow Replay helps to avoid non-deterministic code, it does not guarantee that your code is deterministic.

:::

## How to use the Workflow Replayer

To use the Workflow Replayer, you need to provide the following:

- The Workflow Replayer to register the Workflow that is going to be replayed
- A Workflow History to execute, either:
  - Loaded directly from the Client
  - Loaded from the JSON History file

If you choose to load the Workflow History directly from the Client, consult the [SDK specific documentation](/application-development/testing#replay) for more information.

> If you chose to load the Event History from a JSON file on disk, use one the following methods:

Reviewer: This says from JSON file on disk and then the first subsection is unrelated to JSON, files, or disk

### Programmatically

Consult the [SDK specific documentation](/application-development/testing#replay) for information on loading event Histories.

### The Temporal CLI

Use the Temporal CLI to download the Workflow History file from the CLI:

```command
temporal workflow show --workflow-id <workflow_id> --output json > <output_file>
```

### The Temporal Web UI

Navigate through the Temporal Web UI to download the Workflow History file:

1. Navigate to the Workflow Execution you want to download the History from.
2. In the **Recent Events** section, select **Download**.

Once you have the Workflow JSON History file, you can use the Workflow Replayer to replay the Workflow History, in the SDK of your choice.

## Replay existing Workflow Histories in CI

Use your existing CI pipeline to replay Workflow Histories against your new Workflow versions to ensure that they are compatible with every change pushed to your version control management.

> You can replay existing Workflow Histories in your CI pipeline and validate that they do not break determinism and prevent failures from occurring in production.

Reviewer 2: Would be good here to mention that a good technique can be to fetch the most recent `N` histories from the task queue you care about testing (some open, some closed) and replay all of them to gain confidence

:::

## How to use the Workflow Replayer

To use the Workflow Replayer, you need to provide the following:

- The Workflow Replayer to register the Workflow that you want to replay
- A Workflow History to execute, either:
  - Loaded directly from the Client
  - Loaded from the JSON History file

Consult the [SDK specific documentation](/application-development/testing#replay) for information on using the Workflow Replayer programmatically.

If you chose to load the Event History from a JSON file on disk, you can do so programmatically or from one of the following methods:

### The Temporal CLI

Use the Temporal CLI to download the Workflow History file from the CLI:

```command
temporal workflow show --workflow-id <workflow_id> --output json > <output_file>
```

### The Temporal Web UI

Navigate through the Temporal Web UI to download the Workflow History file:

1. Navigate to the Workflow Execution you want to download the History from.
2. In the **Recent Events** section, select **Download**.

Once you have the Workflow JSON History file, you can use the Workflow Replayer to replay the Workflow History, in the SDK of your choice.

> ## Replay existing Workflow Histories in CI

Reviewer 3: This is core documentation that should live here: https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#replays

This explains a significant use case for the Replayer which is a key aspect of explaining it as a concept -
